Web3 learn page (#5629)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/web3/index.md

---

> title: Web3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: What is web3 and why is it important?
```
I think the current description is actually a better fit for the title.

Reviewer: Or just "What is web3"?

> description: What is web3 and why is it important?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: An introduction to web3 - the next evolution of the internet - and why it matters.
```
Perhaps something like this? Maybe we touch on how it relates to Ethereum? Or not, I'm not sure.

lang: en
sidebar: true
---

# Introduction to web3 {#introduction}

> Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the internet and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives. At the same time, these centralized entities have a stronghold on large swathes of the internet, undemocratically deciding what should and should not be allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the internet and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives. At the same time, a handful of centralized entities have a stronghold on large swathes of the internet, undemocratically deciding what should and should not be allowed.
```

> these centralized entities

Feels weird saying "these" without identifying any of them.

> Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the internet and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives. At the same time, these centralized entities have a stronghold on large swathes of the internet, undemocratically deciding what should and should not be allowed.

Reviewer: > Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the internet and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives.

Feels a bit strange to be saying "centralization" here. It's not very clear what that's referring to. Perhaps "centralized institutions have helped..."?

> Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the internet and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives. At the same time, these centralized entities have a stronghold on large swathes of the internet, undemocratically deciding what should and should not be allowed.

Reviewer: > deciding what should and should not be allowed.

This also feels a bit vague. "Allowed" in what sense? What is allowed to exist on the internet?

Perhaps we could be a bit more specific about how they decide:
- Who can participate
- How people participate
- Overall, how internet users consume, create & interact with information

> Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 is a vision to the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users.
```
Thinking out loud - should we define web3 as a concrete thing? Or is it more of a abstract vision that guides what we're all collectively building towards?

Author: Definitely more abstract IMO.

> Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization. Web3 is the next evolution of the internet that is being built, operated, and owned by its users.
```

> Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users. Web3 will put power in the hands of communities rather than corporations.
```

Before we talk about web3, let's explore how we got here.

<Divider />

## The early internet {#early-internet}

Most people think of the internet as a continuous pillar of modern life—it was invented and has just existed since. However, the internet most of us know today is quite different from originally imagined. To understand this better, it's helpful to break the internet's short history into loose periods—web 1.0 and web 2.0.

> ### What is Web 1.0? {#web1}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Web1: Read-Only {#web1}
```
I do like the header as a question but I wonder if we can also incorporate the read, read-write, read-write-own into each header. I think it's an excellent & simple framing.

In 1989, in CERN, Geneva, Tim Berners-Lee was busy developing the protocols that would become the internet. His idea? To create open, decentralized protocols that allowed information-sharing from anywhere on Earth.

> The first inception of the internet, now known as 'Web 1.0', occurred roughly between 1990 to 2004. The internet on Web 1.0 mainly was static websites owned by companies, and there was close to zero interaction between users, leading to it being known as the read-only web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first inception of the internet, now known as 'Web 1.0', occurred roughly between 1990 to 2004. The internet on Web 1.0 mainly was static websites owned by companies, and there was close to zero interaction between users - individuals seldom produced content - leading to it being known as the read-only web.
```

> ### What is Web 2.0? {#web2}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Web2:  Read-Write {#web2}
```
See comment above - not sure the best way to do this. Open to ideas here.

> The Web 2.0 period began in 2004 with the emergence of social media platforms. Instead of a read-only, the web evolved to be read-write. Instead of companies providing content to users, they also began to provide platforms to share user-generated content and engage in user-to-user interactions.

Reviewer: I think this is a solid overview. Wonder if it's worth adding at the end that many of these were advertising-driven revenue models. While users were able to create content, they often did not own it, and did not benefit from the monetization of their content.

As more people came online, a handful of top companies began to control a disproportionate amount of the traffic and value generated on the web.

<Divider />

> ## Web 3.0 {#web3}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Web3: Read-Write-Own {#web3}
```

> The premise of 'Web 3.0' was coined by Ethereum co-founder Gavin Wood shortly after Ethereum launched in 2014. Gavin put into words a solution for a problem that many early crypto adopters felt: the internet required too much trust. That is, most of the internet that people know and use today relies on trusting a handful of private companies to act in the public's best interests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The premise of 'Web 3.0' was coined by [Ethereum](/what-is-ethereum/) co-founder Gavin Wood shortly after Ethereum launched in 2014. Gavin put into words a solution for a problem that many early crypto adopters felt: the internet required too much trust. That is, most of the internet that people know and use today relies on trusting a handful of private companies to act in the public's best interests.
```

### What is web3? {#what-is-web3}

Web3 has become a catch-all term for the vision of a new, better internet. At its core, Web3 uses blockchain, cryptocurrency, and NFTs to give power back to the users in the form of ownership. Chris Dixon said it best: web1 was read-only, web2 is read/write, web3 will be read/write/own.

#### Core ideas of web3 {#core-ideas}

> Although it's challenging to provide a rigid definition of is and is not web3, a few core principles guide its creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although it's challenging to provide a rigid definition what web3 is, a few core principles guide its creation.
```

- **Web3 is decentralized:** instead of large swathes of the internet controlled and owned by centralized entities, ownership gets distributed amongst its builders and users.
- **Web3 is permissionless:** everyone has equal access to participate in web3, and no one gets excluded.

> - **Web3 has native payments:** it uses cryptocurrency for spending and sending money online instead of relying on the infrastructure banks and payment processors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Web3 has native payments:** it uses cryptocurrency for spending and sending money online instead of relying on the outdated infrastructure of banks and payment processors.
```

> - **Web3 is trustless:** it operates using incentives and mechanisms instead of relying on trusted third-parties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Web3 is trustless:** it operates using incentives and economic mechanisms instead of relying on trusted third-parties
```

### Why is web 3.0 important? {#why-is-web3-important}

> So why does web3 matter so much? Web3's killer features aren't isolated and don't fit into neat categories. But, for simplicity, we've tried to separate them to make them easier to understand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So why does web3 matter? Web3's killer features aren't isolated and don't fit into neat categories. But, for simplicity, we've tried to separate them to make them easier to understand.
```

#### Ownership {#ownership}

Web3 gives you ownership of your digital assets in an unprecedented way. For example, say you're playing a web2 game. If you purchase an in-game item, it is tied directly to your account. If the game creators delete your account, you will lose these items. Or, if you stop playing the game, you lose the value you invested into your in-game items.

> Web3 allows for direct ownership through [non-fungible tokens (NFTs)](/nft/). No one, even the game's creators, has the power to take away your ownership. And, if you stop playing, you can sell your in-game items and recoup their value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 allows for direct ownership through [non-fungible tokens (NFTs)](/nft/). No one, not even the game's creators, has the power to take away your ownership. And, if you stop playing, you can sell or trade your in-game items on open markets and recoup their value.
```

<ButtonLink to="/nft/">
  More on NFTs
</ButtonLink>

#### Governance {#governance}

> As a Web2 platform increases in popularity, the power of the individual user's opinion decreases. Simultaneously, the power of the platform's governing body wields also increases. Over time, this power imbalance can spiral out of control until the platform can ignore grievances with no repercussions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a Web2 platform increases in popularity, the power of the individual user's opinion decreases. Simultaneously, the power of the platform's governing body also increases. Over time, this power imbalance can spiral out of control until the platform can ignore grievances with no repercussions.
```

> As a Web2 platform increases in popularity, the power of the individual user's opinion decreases. Simultaneously, the power of the platform's governing body wields also increases. Over time, this power imbalance can spiral out of control until the platform can ignore grievances with no repercussions.

Reviewer: I might incorporate to this section: platforms currently have the power to change the rules at any time. e.g. users typically have no say whenever a company updates their terms of use.

> Web3 lets users participate in the decision making of a platform through tokens. A recent example of this is Ethereum Name Service (ENS), which distributed 25% of its voting rights to existing users by sending ENS tokens to their wallets. Anyone with ENS tokens can vote on proposals about the future of ENS. ENS is a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) because its ownership gets distributed amongst its token holders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 empowers users to participate in the decision making of a platform through tokens. A recent example of this is Ethereum Name Service (ENS), which distributed 25% of its voting rights to existing users by sending ENS tokens to their wallets. Anyone with ENS tokens can vote on proposals about the future of ENS. ENS is a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) because its ownership gets distributed amongst its token holders.
```

> Web3 lets users participate in the decision making of a platform through tokens. A recent example of this is Ethereum Name Service (ENS), which distributed 25% of its voting rights to existing users by sending ENS tokens to their wallets. Anyone with ENS tokens can vote on proposals about the future of ENS. ENS is a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) because its ownership gets distributed amongst its token holders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 lets users participate in the decision making of a platform through tokens. A recent example of this is Ethereum Name Service (ENS), which distributed 25% of its voting rights to existing users by sending ENS tokens to their wallets. Anyone with ENS tokens can vote on proposals about the future of ENS. ENS is a [decentralized autonomous organization (DAO)](/dao/) because its ownership gets distributed amongst its token holders.
```

### Identity {#identity}

Traditionally, you would create an account for every platform you use. For example, you might have a Twitter account, a YouTube account, and a Reddit account. Want to change your display name or profile picture? You have to do it across every account. You can use social sign-ins in some cases, but this presents a familiar problem—censorship. In a single click, these platforms can lock you out of your entire online life. Even worse, many platforms require you to trust them with personally identifiable information to create an account.

Web3 solves these problems by allowing you to control your digital identity with an Ethereum address and ENS profile. Using an Ethereum address provides a single login across platforms that is secure, censorship-resistant, and anonymous.

<ButtonLink to="https://login.xyz/">
  Sign-in with Ethereum
</ButtonLink>

### Native payments {#native-payments}

Web2's payment infrastructure relies on banks and payment processors, excluding people without bank accounts or those who happen to live within the borders of the wrong country.

> Web3 uses tokens like ETH to send money directly in the browser and requires no trusted third party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 uses tokens like [ETH](/eth/) to send money directly in the browser and requires no trusted third party.
```

<ButtonLink to="/eth/">
  More on ETH
</ButtonLink>

## Web3 limitations {#web3-limitations}

Despite the numerous benefits of Web3 in its current form, there are still many limitations that the ecosystem must address for it to flourish.

### Accessibility {#accessibility}

> Web3 is less likely to be utilized in less-wealthy, developing nations due to high transaction fees. On Ethereum, these challenges are being solved right through network upgrades and layer 2 scaling solutions. The technology is ready, but we need higher levels of adoption on layer 2 to make Web3 accessible to everyone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 is less likely to be utilized in less-wealthy, developing nations due to high transaction fees. On Ethereum, these challenges are being solved through [network upgrades](/upgrades/) and [layer 2 scaling solutions](/developers/docs/scaling/). The technology is ready, but we need higher levels of adoption on layer 2 to make Web3 accessible to everyone.
```

Reviewer: Temp suggestion until we have a L2 page.

> <ButtonLink to="/layer-2/">

Reviewer: I'd say for now we just remove this button.

  More on layer 2
</ButtonLink>

### User experience {#user-experience}

> The technical barrier to entry to using Web3 is currently too high. Users must comprehend security concerns, understand complex technical documentation, and navigate unintuitive user interfaces. Wallet providers, in particular, are working to solve this, but more progress is needed before Web3 gets adopted en masse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The technical barrier to entry to using Web3 is currently too high. Users must comprehend security concerns, understand complex technical documentation, and navigate unintuitive user interfaces. [Wallet providers](/wallets/find-wallet/), in particular, are working to solve this, but more progress is needed before Web3 gets adopted en masse.
```

### Centralized infrastructure {#centralized-infrastructure}

The Web3 ecosystem is young and quickly evolving. As a result, it currently depends mainly on centralized infrastructure (GitHub, Twitter, Discord, etc.). Many web3 companies are rushing to fill these gaps, but building high-quality, reliable infrastructure takes time.

## A decentralized future {#decentralized-future}

Web3 is a young and evolving ecosystem. Gavin Wood coined the term in 2014, but many of these ideas have only recently become a reality. In the last year alone, there has been a considerable surge in the interest in cryptocurrency, improvements to layer 2 scaling solutions, massive experiments with new forms of governance, and revolutions in digital identity.

We are only at the beginning of creating a better internet with web3, but as we continue to improve the infrastructure that will support it, the future of the internet looks bright.

> ## Further reading {#further-reading}

Reviewer: Before this, I'd recommend a "Get started with web3" section, which calls out some places to go from here, e.g.
- Enter Ethereum (https://ethereum.org/en/what-is-ethereum/)
- Get a wallet (https://ethereum.org/en/wallets/)
- Explore web3 applications (https://ethereum.org/en/dapps/)
- Build on web3 (https://ethereum.org/en/developers/)

> Web3 isn’t rigidly defined. Various community participants have different perspectives on it. Here are a few of them:

Reviewer: Potential articles to add here:
- https://onezero.medium.com/why-decentralization-matters-5e3f79f7638e

---
title: What is web3 and why is it important?
description: An introduction to web3 - the next evolution of the internet - and why it matters.
lang: en
sidebar: true
---

# Introduction to web3 {#introduction}

> Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the internet and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives. At the same time, a handful of centralized entities have a stronghold on large swathes of the internet, undemocratically deciding what should and should not be allowed.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a fan of using the term "undemocratically" here as it implies that web3 provides a democratic solution to the problem (which it definitely doesn't).  Consider instead:
```suggestion
Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the internet and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives. At the same time, a handful of centralized entities have a stronghold on large swathes of the internet, unilaterally deciding what should and should not be allowed.
```

> Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users. Web3 will put power in the hands of individuals rather than corporations.

Reviewer 3: We switched tense here.
```suggestion
Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users. Web3 puts power in the hands of individuals rather than corporations.
```

> Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users. Web3 will put power in the hands of communities rather than corporations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users. Web3 will put power in the hands of individuals rather than corporations.
```

Before we talk about web3, let's explore how we got here.

<Divider />

## The early internet {#early-internet}

Most people think of the internet as a continuous pillar of modern life—it was invented and has just existed since. However, the internet most of us know today is quite different from originally imagined. To understand this better, it's helpful to break the internet's short history into loose periods—web 1.0 and web 2.0.

> ### Web1: Read-Only {#web1}

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason we go between `WebX` syntax and `Web X.0` syntax? Just curious I guess, wondering if it's needed
We also should standardize between `WebX` and `webX` in the middle of a sentence. Is there any such consensus? I feel like I lean towards lowercase, but not a hill I care to die on in the slightest

Author: > Is there a reason we go between WebX syntax and Web X.0 syntax? Just curious I guess, wondering if it's needed

It's kinda confusing because Web 1.0 and Web 2.0 are pretty standard. Gavin coined it as 'Web 3.0' and somewhere along the line it became just 'Web3'.

So the currently used terms seem to be:

- Web 1.0
- Web 2.0
- Web3

Kinda messy... 

I think the best solution is to exclusively use Web 1.0, and Web 2.0. Then, use Web3.0 for the read-write-own heading and introductory paragraph and prepend an explanation that it evolved to become known as Web3

Author: > We also should standardize between WebX and webX in the middle of a sentence. Is there any such consensus? I feel like I lean towards lowercase, but not a hill I care to die on in the slightest

Yup, agree. Also no strong opinions. I'll do a little digging into what the current standard leans towards.

Reviewer 2: > I think the best solution is to exclusively use Web 1.0, and Web 2.0. Then, use Web3.0 for the read-write-own heading and introductory paragraph and prepend an explanation that it evolved to become known as Web3

If the first two were called `Web 1.0` and `Web 2.0`, it feels like we should call it `Web 3.0` everywhere.  If people want to shorthand that elsewhere that is up to them, but I feel like for more formal documentation, FAQs, websites, etc. we should use the more consistent/strict terminology.

Author: Hmm, I don't think I'd agree here.

I don't think going against the common nomenclature for consistency of style makes sense. The term has evolved (e.g. Gavin, despite being credited as coining 'Web 3.0' has the 'Web3 Foundation')  and I think we should refer to it as it known now. Otherwise, we might leave readers confused (i.e. they've read about Web 3.0, is Web3 different?)

Reviewer 4: '> > I think the best solution is to exclusively use Web 1.0, and Web 2.0. Then, use Web3.0 for the read-write-own heading and introductory paragraph and prepend an explanation that it evolved to become known as Web3
> 
> If the first two were called `Web 1.0` and `Web 2.0`, it feels like we should call it `Web 3.0` everywhere. If people want to shorthand that elsewhere that is up to them, but I feel like for more formal documentation, FAQs, websites, etc. we should use the more consistent/strict terminology.'

Web3 is not shorthand for Web 3.0. There is a missing gap here. 

There is:

Web 1.0 - Read-only.
Web 2.0 - Read-write.
Web 3.0 - Semantic Web. 

The final one did exist in some textbooks (some I used to teach myself), but never stuck in the mainstream. 

Then there is our version, Web3 or web3. This is how the term is used and understood by the majority of Ethereum users. They do not think it is shorthand for Web 3.0 (and, technically speaking, it's not given that means the Semantic Web) and I believe they would consider us idiosyncratic to be using the more outdated 3.0. 

It's a confusing term, but I think over time we'll see Web3/web3 stabilise nicely.

Reviewer 4: On a different note, some sections use web3 and some Web3. We should pick one.

### Web2: Read-Write {#web2}

The Web 2.0 period began in 2004 with the emergence of social media platforms. Instead of a read-only, the web evolved to be read-write. Instead of companies providing content to users, they also began to provide platforms to share user-generated content and engage in user-to-user interactions. As more people came online, a handful of top companies began to control a disproportionate amount of the traffic and value generated on the web. Web 2.0 also birthed the advertising-driven revenue model. While users could create content, they didn't own it or benefit from its monetization.

<Divider />

## Web3: Read-Write-Own {#web3}

The premise of 'Web 3.0' was coined by [Ethereum](/what-is-ethereum/) co-founder Gavin Wood shortly after Ethereum launched in 2014. Gavin put into words a solution for a problem that many early crypto adopters felt: the internet required too much trust. That is, most of the internet that people know and use today relies on trusting a handful of private companies to act in the public's best interests.

### What is web3? {#what-is-web3}

> Web3 has become a catch-all term for the vision of a new, better internet. At its core, Web3 uses blockchain, cryptocurrency, and NFTs to give power back to the users in the form of ownership. Chris Dixon said it best: web1 was read-only, web2 is read/write, web3 will be read/write/own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Web3 has become a catch-all term for the vision of a new, better internet. At its core, Web3 uses blockchains, cryptocurrencies, and NFTs to give power back to the users in the form of ownership. Chris Dixon said it best: web1 was read-only, web2 is read/write, web3 will be read/write/own.
```
https://blockchainisaconcretecountablenoun.com/

Author: > https://blockchainisaconcretecountablenoun.com/

I love that this is a website.

> Web3 has become a catch-all term for the vision of a new, better internet. At its core, Web3 uses blockchains, cryptocurrencies, and NFTs to give power back to the users in the form of ownership. Chris Dixon said it best: web1 was read-only, web2 is read/write, web3 will be read/write/own.

Reviewer 5: I think Chris Dixon was actually retweeting this: 

https://twitter.com/j1mmyeth/status/1459003044067258370?s=20&t=jrElbLC4UYz2chfS35rN-Q

Author: I **think** Chris Dixon was the aforementioned thought-leader from the original tweet. Could be wrong. We should verify this. At the very least I would say he popularised it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Web3 has become a catch-all term for the vision of a new, better internet. At its core, Web3 uses blockchains, cryptocurrencies, and NFTs to give power back to the users in the form of ownership. [This tweet](https://twitter.com/j1mmyeth/status/1459003044067258370?s=20&t=jrElbLC4UYz2chfS35rN-Q) said it best: web1 was read-only, web2 is read/write, web3 will be read/write/own.
```

#### Core ideas of web3 {#core-ideas}

Although it's challenging to provide a rigid definition what web3 is, a few core principles guide its creation.

- **Web3 is decentralized:** instead of large swathes of the internet controlled and owned by centralized entities, ownership gets distributed amongst its builders and users.
- **Web3 is permissionless:** everyone has equal access to participate in web3, and no one gets excluded.
- **Web3 has native payments:** it uses cryptocurrency for spending and sending money online instead of relying on the outdated infrastructure of banks and payment processors.
- **Web3 is trustless:** it operates using incentives and economic mechanisms instead of relying on trusted third-parties

### Why is web 3.0 important? {#why-is-web3-important}

> So why does web3 matter? Web3's killer features aren't isolated and don't fit into neat categories. But, for simplicity, we've tried to separate them to make them easier to understand.

Reviewer 3: First sentence felt redundant with this header
```suggestion
Although web3's killer features aren't isolated and don't fit into neat categories, for simplicity we've tried to separate them to make them easier to understand.
```

<ButtonLink to="/nft/">
  More on NFTs
</ButtonLink>

#### Governance {#governance}

As a Web2 platform increases in popularity, the power of the individual user's opinion decreases. Simultaneously, the power of the platform's governing body also increases. Over time, this power imbalance can spiral out of control until the platform can ignore grievances with no repercussions.

Web3 empowers users to participate in the decision making of a platform through tokens. A recent example of this is Ethereum Name Service (ENS), which distributed 25% of its voting rights to existing users by sending ENS tokens to their wallets. Anyone with ENS tokens can vote on proposals about the future of ENS. ENS is a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) because its ownership gets distributed amongst its token holders.

_In Web2, you can refuse to use a platform; in Web3, you can vote to change it._

<ButtonLink to="/dao/">
  More on DAOs
</ButtonLink>

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm not a huge fan of this section.  Governance as described is perfectly possible within the context of Web2, and something that doesn't function like a DAO may still be a completely viable web3 application.  I think governance is orthogonal to the ideals of web3.  The same patterns can (and probably will) emerge within the context of web3.

Many things will be built by someone who chooses to ignore their users.  Web3 is about giving user's the power to "vote with their feet" without having to leave behind the content they provided (because they own their own data, and data is permissionless), not about constraining the types of mechanisms that builders use to decide what they want to build.

Reviewer 5: Agree with this critique!

The final sentence feels a bit problematic to me - I think one of the big problems with web2 is that, because the small group of web2 mega-platforms are so deeply embedded in mainstream web infrastructure, trying to boycott them is ostracizing for most users. Also in web3 the power of individual votes to influence platforms seems overrated. 

The value of web3 (imho) is that you can walk away from a specific web3 platform with your data at any time with minimal consequences for your overall web3 experience. Also permissionlessness and open source by default discourages apps becoming too monopolistic because alternative versions can be built quickly from forks (e.g. uni/sushi).

Reviewer 3: Would overall agree with the comments here. How a particular platform governs itself is kinda separate to what makes something web3... I would honestly just consider dropping this section

#### Censorship resistance {#censorship-resistance}

The power dynamic between platforms and content creators is massively imbalanced.

OnlyFans is a user-generated adult content site with over 1-million content creators, many of which use the platform as their primary source of income. In August 2021, OnlyFans announced plans to ban sexually explicit content. The announcement sparked outrage amongst creators on the platform, who felt they were getting robbed of an income on a platform they helped create. After the backlash, the decision got quickly reversed.

> Web 2.0 requires content creators to trust platforms not to change the rules, but censorship resistance is a native feature of a web3 platform.

Reviewer 3: Right, I would agree with this comment. This is kind of an example of how OnlyFans _could have_ banned if they wanted to. A social graph build on decentralized rails could allow creators to port their content to another interface for example, or have it served on many front-ends, so if one decides to filter out content, users can just use another one where the same creator is listed.

> Web 2.0 requires content creators to trust platforms not to change the rules, but censorship resistance is a native feature of a web3 platform.

Author: The idea was to show a tangible example of the power held by Web2 companies to censor users. The fact that it was flouted wasn't meant to be important. 

Overall I like this example because it's popular, relatable, and apolitical. Taking into account we want this to be approachable to newbies I think we should start with some sort of tangible example of censorship.

Do we think expanding this example to talk how despite this attempt at censorship failing due to users threatening to vote with their feet, they would have lost all of their data/reputation/followers otherwise and then discussing how open permissionless code fixes this?

> Web 2.0 requires content creators to trust platforms not to change the rules, but censorship resistance is a native feature of a web3 platform.

Reviewer 2: I think there are better examples where censorship succeeded (like YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, etc.).  Using an example where the censorship failed to censor people makes for a poor example for why we need censorship resistant systems.

For any successful censorship, there will almost always be some people who agree with it, which is why it is able to stick around.  This means that successful censorship examples will essentially always be political.  It is only "apolitical" in the cases where the censorship fails (because everyone agrees it is bad).

> Web 2.0 requires content creators to trust platforms not to change the rules, but censorship resistance is a native feature of a web3 platform.

Author: I've created a ticket to iterate on this. Merging this PR for now and will rethink this example in the first iteration.

Web3 solves these problems by allowing you to control your digital identity with an Ethereum address and ENS profile. Using an Ethereum address provides a single login across platforms that is secure, censorship-resistant, and anonymous.

<ButtonLink to="https://login.xyz/">
  Sign-in with Ethereum
</ButtonLink>

### Native payments {#native-payments}

Web2's payment infrastructure relies on banks and payment processors, excluding people without bank accounts or those who happen to live within the borders of the wrong country.
Web3 uses tokens like [ETH](/eth/) to send money directly in the browser and requires no trusted third party.

<ButtonLink to="/eth/">
  More on ETH
</ButtonLink>

## Web3 limitations {#web3-limitations}

Despite the numerous benefits of Web3 in its current form, there are still many limitations that the ecosystem must address for it to flourish.

### Accessibility {#accessibility}

> Web3 is less likely to be utilized in less-wealthy, developing nations due to high transaction fees. On Ethereum, these challenges are being solved through [network upgrades](/upgrades/) and [layer 2 scaling solutions](/developers/docs/scaling/). The technology is ready, but we need higher levels of adoption on layer 2 to make Web3 accessible to everyone.

Reviewer 2: A subset of web3 features can be done prior to solving the scalability problem.  For example, sign-in with Ethereum doesn't require any money to utilize.  Also, any application builder can choose *today* to build their data platform as a layer 2, there is no need to wait for someone else to do it.

I think this section in general should remain so that we are honest about the reality on the ground, but I think there is value in highlighting that stuff can be built *today* that follows web3 principals without needing to wait for others to solve hard problems first.
